Top 3 Scenarios Where Managing Multiple Clusters with One OpenSearch Dashboard is a Life Saver (#2829)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-05-16-Top-3-Scenarios-Where-Managing-Multiple-Clusters-with-One-OpenSearch-Dashboards-is-a-Life-Saver.md

---
layout: post

> title: "Top 3 scenarios in which managing multiple clusters with one OpenSearch Dashboards instance is a life saver"

Reviewer: lifesaver is one word.

Author: > lifesaver is one word.

Is this the only change needed before merging in this PR?

Author: Synced offline with @pajuric , maintainers would help to change the title to make lifesaver as one word. PR can be published tomorrow

authors:
 - nluyu
date: 2024-05-16
categories:
 - feature
meta_keyword: OpenSearch multiple data source, OpenSearch Dashboards
meta_description: This blog provides a quick glance at the accumulated features of multi-data sources from version 2.4 to 2.14 and how these features empower your productivity with unified experience. 
---  

OpenSearch Dashboards, the visualization tool for your OpenSearch data, offers the multiple data sources feature. This feature enables you to consolidate and visualize data from various OpenSearch clusters within a unified dashboard. By integrating disparate sources into a single view, the multiple data sources feature streamlines data analysis workflows, eliminates the need for complex data consolidation processes, and enhances productivity. With the ability to connect to and visualize data from multiple OpenSearch clusters, you can unlock new levels of observability, governance, and data-driven decision-making.

> The multiple data sources feature is available in OpenSearch versions 2.4 and later. The feature supports authentication types (AWS Signature Version 4, basic authentication), Vega visualizations, and data management features (importing of saved objects). With OpenSearch 2.14, we have expanded multiple data sources support for nine dashboard features (index management, machine learning (ML), search relevance, anomaly detection, maps, security, notifications, Query Workbench, and trace analytics) and certain visualizations (time-series visual builder [TSVB] and region map). If you are managing an environment with multiple clusters and use one cluster more often than the others, you now have the ability to set a default cluster that can be referenced by all Dashboards features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The multiple data sources feature is available in OpenSearch versions 2.4 and later. The feature supports authentication types (AWS Signature Version 4, basic authentication), Vega visualizations, and data management features (importing of saved objects). With OpenSearch 2.14, we have expanded multiple data sources support for nine dashboard features (index management, machine learning [ML], search relevance, anomaly detection, maps, security, notifications, Query Workbench, and trace analytics) and certain visualizations (time-series visual builder [TSVB] and region map). If you are managing an environment with multiple clusters and use one cluster more often than the others, you now have the ability to set a default cluster that can be referenced by all Dashboards features.
```

This blog explains the top three scenarios to enable one OpenSearch Dashboards instance to handle data from multiple data sources. 

## Scenario 1: Unified analytics across distributed data sources

> For enterprises with data scattered across various clusters, users previously had to establish temporary ingestion pipelines to consolidate data into a central repository for analysis. However, with the introduction of multiple data sources support, OpenSearch Dashboards now enables users to query and visualize data from multiple sources within a single dashboards. This feature supports a range of visualization types, like Vega, TSVB, Region Map, and index pattern-based visualizations, providing a comprehensive and cohesive view of dispersed data. 

Author: Good catch, it should be region map, changed in new commit

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/dashboards_overall.png"/>

The following image shows a TSVB visualization created from disparate data sources. 

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/tsvb_overall.png"/>

By simply specifying a new data_source_name field within the Vega specification url field, users can create Vega visualization with data from one or multiple specific data sources by name. An example specification setting is shown in the following image.

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/vega_overall.png"/>

Multiple data sources supports adding a prefix to the index pattern name, improving ease of identifying the pattern during its creation.

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/maps_1.png"/>

> Also, the referenced data sources from the current map layers are indicated by clicking on the icon on the top navigation bar.

Author: Do you have a suggestion? Visually, it will show the data sources being used by current map across multiple layers

> Also, the referenced data sources from the current map layers are indicated by clicking on the icon on the top navigation bar.

Reviewer 2: In that case, I think "indicated" is probably fine 😄

The following images show the data source picker in the top right hand corner within Index State Management.

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/indexes_overview.png"/>

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/detailed_index.png"/>

OpenSearch Dashboards supports managing security across multiple data sources. Administrators can centrally manage roles and internal users for different clusters by selecting the desired cluster from the DATA SOURCES dropdown menu, as shown in the following image.

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/roles_overview.png"/>

> Users can also manage notification channels, as shown in the following image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also manage notification channels, as shown in the following image.
```

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/channels_overview.png"/>

> Users can manage remote ML models, as shown in the following image. The pre-trained models are deployed to the selected cluster through the Dev Tools console. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users can manage remote ML models, as shown in the following image. The pretrained models are deployed to the selected cluster through the Dev Tools console. 
```

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/models_overview.png"/>

> The Dev Tools console, shown in the following image, is integrated with the multiple data sources feature. Users can select the target data source and execute commands to query ot modify the backend data directly from a central location. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Dev Tools console, shown in the following image, is integrated with the multiple data sources feature. You can select the target data source and execute commands to query to modify the backend data directly from a central location. 
```

> The Dev Tools console, shown in the following image, is integrated with the multiple data sources feature. Users can select the target data source and execute commands to query ot modify the backend data directly from a central location. 

Reviewer 2: In the second sentence, we need to choose either "to query" or "to modify".

Author: Right, will remove `to modify`

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/devtool.png"/>

> Multiple data sources enable OpenSearch Dashboards to provide a centralized interface to create, view, and modify anomaly detectors from various OpenSearch clusters, streamlining the management process, as shown in the following image.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The multiple data sources feature enables OpenSearch Dashboards to provide a centralized interface for creating, viewing, and modifying anomaly detectors from various OpenSearch clusters, streamlining the management process, as shown in the following image.  
```

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/detector_detail.png"/>

## Scenario 3: Comparing search query results across clusters

> For users with multiple OpenSearch clusters handling search traffic, multiple data sources enables OpenSearch Dashboards with the ability to compare search results across these clusters within a single instance by using the Data Source picker in the Compare search results application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For users with multiple OpenSearch clusters handling search traffic, the multiple data sources feature allows OpenSearch Dashboards to compare search results across these clusters within a single instance by using the data source picker in the Compare search results application.
```

> For users with multiple OpenSearch clusters handling search traffic, multiple data sources enables OpenSearch Dashboards with the ability to compare search results across these clusters within a single instance by using the Data Source picker in the Compare search results application.

Reviewer 2: Should we format "Compare search results" in such a way as to indicate that it's the proper name of something?

Author: It is not a name, could you clarify?

Reviewer 2: In that case, "compare" should be lowercase.

Author: sorry for the confusion, it is the title of the page though, I can add tick like `Compare search results`

Author: changed to `Compare search results` by adding `

<img src="/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-16-top3-scenarios-where-managing-multiple-clusters-with-one-opensearch-dashboards-is-a-life-saver/compare_queries.png"/>

## Summary
The multiple data sources feature in OpenSearch Dashboards represents a significant advancement in data analysis and management. By consolidating access to distributed data sources within a single interface, it enables users to gain comprehensive insights, streamline operations, and make informed decisions more efficiently. As organizations face challenges in managing and analyzing data across disparate systems, this feature positions OpenSearch Dashboards as a powerful solution for centralized data observability, governance, and exploration. With the ability to unify data from multiple clusters, users can unlock new levels of productivity, collaboration, and data-driven decision-making across their data ecosystem.

If you have additional scenarios you’d like us to cover, let us know.

> Special thanks to Ramakrishna Chilaka, Prabhat Sharma, Derek Ho, Junqiu Lei, Jackie Han, Riya Saxena, Sumukh Hanumantha Swamy, Lin Wang, Ella Zhu, Emma Jin, Huy Nguyen, Zhongnan Su for their work to enable multiple data sources support for OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Special thanks to Ramakrishna Chilaka, Prabhat Sharma, Derek Ho, Junqiu Lei, Jackie Han, Riya Saxena, Sumukh Hanumantha Swamy, Lin Wang, Ella Zhu, Emma Jin, Huy Nguyen, and Zhongnan Su for their work in building multiple data sources support for OpenSearch Dashboards.
```
